I'm chef say hey it's finally sunny in
the northwest so I'm in a dress
appropriately today we are going to take
a pork tenderloin
from ordinary to a spicy flavorful dish
rubs are such a great way to add flavor
without adding a lot of fat or extra
calories and there are some tricks to
doing it right so fire up that grill
I'll show you how it's done
to make the spice rub it's so incredibly
easy we're going to use a little bit of
smoked paprika gives it really nice
flavor
then I've got some chili powder and some
cayenne for kick if you don't like spicy
food you might want to leave the Cayenne
out here we've got a little bit of cumin
and some granulated garlic and then
finally a little bit of kosher salt just
going to mix this together and if you
don't have the same spices at home go
ahead and get creative and make your own
rub you really can't go wrong here there
we go now let's have a little
conversation about spices shall we I
have a lot of people who say oh you know
I've got one of these and it's been
around for two years here's what you
need to do go find the bulk section in
your grocery store and look for spices
in bulk this is a great way to buy not
only is it fresher but you can buy what
you need and it's a lot less expensive
so instead of buying this buy this on
this sheet of plastic I just have a pork
tenderloin and all I'm going to do make
its really easy
just take some of my rub I'm not going
to use it all this makes more than
you're going to need and just sprinkle
it over the top just a little bit more
and now you're going to give your pork
tenderloin a little rubdown so you're
going to kind of Pat the spices into the
meat turn it over there we go roll it
over and get all those spices pressed
into the meat now here's the important
part you want to let this rest in the
refrigerator for at least two hours so
all those spices are going to infuse
into the meat and make it really
flavorful so now that you've got that
all rubbed in just going to wrap it up
tightly in plastic wrap just like that
and then twist the ends closed the pork
tenderloin has spent some nice time
hanging out in the fridge and we are
ready to grill so I'm just going to
unwrap it look how nice that looks all
the flavors are infused into the pork so
for the grill I
preheated it to medium-high heat I'm
going to get out my tongs again and my
paper towel and just lightly dip in
vegetable oil and rub the grill and this
way our pork tenderloin won't stick to
the grill as we cook it there we go
now I'm ready to put the pork on the
grill so I'm just going to lift it up
and stick it right on the hottest part
of the grill there we go now we're going
to close the lid let this cook for two
minutes now here's an important thing to
note I've got all the burners on in my
grill right now so we're doing direct
heat but you have to be careful because
spices can burn very easily so once
we've got a nice sear on the outside of
the pork we're going to turn the middle
burner off where the pork is and let it
cook over indirect heat the pork has
been cooking for two minutes so I'm just
going to give it a quarter turn there we
go see those nice grill marks that's
exactly what I'm looking for but it's
not burned so I'm going to cook another
two minutes turn another two minutes and
then turn again
now that the pork has been seared on all
four sides I'm going to give it one more
turn now we need to cook it all the way
through so this is where I'm going to go
to the indirect cooking I'm going to
cook turn off the burner that's
underneath the pork and let it continue
cooking for another 10 to 12 minutes all
right
the pork has had plenty of time to rest
all those juices have redistributed
throughout the meat making this so juicy
and flavorful
so to slice just going to slice it on
the diagonal let's take a look I hope
this is perfectly cooked I'm sure it is
holed it's so beautiful look how juicy
and tender that is
with just a little bit of know-how you
too can create a spice rub that turns
ordinary pork tenderloin into Wow pork
tenderloin happy and healthy cooking